Topic 001: Spring Bean, Dependency injection(DI) in Spring Boot

# Topic 001: Spring Bean, Dependency injection(DI) in Spring Boot

> What is Spring Bean?

    1. Beans are objects that form the pivotal part of your application. They are instantiated, assembled, and managed by the Spring IoC container.

    2. The beans are built with configuration metadata that are provided to the container. This configuration data determines the bean behavior.

> Configuring Spring Bean

    1. XML based configuration file
    2. Annotation-based configuration
    3. Java-based configuration

> Bean Scopes

    While defining a bean you can declare a scope for the bean.

    E.g., to force Spring to create a new bean instance every time, you must declare the scope attribute of the bean to be prototype.

    If you require Spring to return the same bean instance every time, you must declare the scope attribute of the bean to be singleton.

    There are five types of Scopes defined

        1. singleton
        2. prototype
        3. request
        4. session
        5. global-session

> Bean - Lifecycle

    You have to do some initialization to get a bean into a usable state, when instantiating a bean.

    Also, you might have to perform a little cleanup, when the bean is removed from the container.

    Callback methods are used to add user-defined initialization and finalization tasks during the Spring Bean Lifecycle.

The two callback methods are

    1. Initialization callbacks
    2. Destruction callbacks

1. Initialization Callbacks

You can implement the InitializingBean interface and initialization work can be done inside afterPropertiesSet() method as follows −

```java
public class ExampleBean implements InitializingBean {
public void afterPropertiesSet() {
    // do some initialization work
}
}
```

2. Destruction Callbacks

You can implement DisposableBean interface and finalization work can be done inside destroy() method as follows −

```java
public class ExampleBean implements DisposableBean {
public void destroy() {
    // do some destruction work
}
}
```
